---
title: "An update"
date: 2021-10-01T21:24:19-04:00
tags:
  - update
---

Hello! Been a while since the last sign of life, eh?

Well, those who feared I had disappeared, fear not. In fact, I've been spending some of my spare time
polishing previous articles. A strong idea hasn't hit me yet for the next post, so I decided to take my time
and wait! How have *you* been?

I started looking at my analytics for this website and I notice that my most popular articles (by far) are
regarding the [MiSTer FPGA](https://felixleger.com/posts/2020/10/dream-machine-mister-fpga/) and the [archival
of RomHacking.net](https://felixleger.com/posts/2021/01/web-scraping-for-preservation/). I was absolutely
proud of these posts when I published them, so I'm glad to see the community react to them in great numbers. Sure, the RHDN
community wasn't thrilled about my web scraping project (understandably), which did put a damper on things.
You'll have to read the post for yourself if you want more details on this *dramatic* situation.

Musically, I've had a lot of fun with the latest Hubert Lenoir LP. That man never stops to impress, what an
artist! At the moment, I'm listening to a mixtape from
[GST](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCoQsV1On1wnbGn705cf_9Gw) who does superb mixes of vintage gaming music.
Seriously, this stuff is the bomb and I highly recommend anyone remotely interested in video game music to
check out his channel.

Other than that? Being able to meet people in person again is the sweetest feeling in the world. I must admit
that this last year and half has been a lot to take in at once. I now feel, if not stronger, more complete.
I'm glad that the people around me are all ok. I feel incredibly lucky at times. I'm trying to remind myself
of that the rest of the time. :smile:

I'm excited for my next big idea. I know it won't change the world, but I know that whatever I'll come up will
enable me to pour my heart and soul into it. This type of project is the best to look back upon. Hopefully,
you will be part of the ride!

See you soon.
