---
title: "New 'My Lectures' Page!"
date: 2023-03-02T08:13:22-05:00
draft: false
frontpage: "true"
toc: false
cover:
tags:
  - announcement
---

It has been a while since I have posted something important (to me), but
today is the day where the counter is set back to 0. :smiley: I have been hard at work since [my latest "important"
post](https://felixleger.com/overcoming-learning-anxiety/) reading as
many books as I can and perfecting my learning system. In fact, my
relationship with books has evolved to the point where buying a new book
today feels as exciting as buying a "new" retro video game in my younger
days. I'm not quite sure what to think of that yet (am I beginning a new
toxic materialistic relationship?), but at least in the meantime I am
learning *a lot*.

Since I now take a lot of notes when I read, I figured I could make
these notes available for the world. Why not? In the worst case
scenario, if no one finds this useful, at least it will provide a
convenient access to my own notes wherever I go. Best case scenario, I
become seen as a "learning guru"!

(Ok, I know I won't be seen as a learning guru anytime soon, and I'm
trying hard not to get my hopes up, but I care deeply about curing
"learning anxiety", so I'll do everything I can to work in that
direction!)

So, without further ado, here is a link to my list of lectures, which I
will keep up to date as I progress in my quest of learning. I have
included a digital copy of my notes for each book (except The Phoenix
Project, since I didn't have a learning system at the time of reading
that one!). I hope you'll find it useful and that it will give you the
courage to embark on your own learning journey. Safe travels, my friend!

[Link to My Lectures](/lists/my-lectures/)
