---
title: "What Is My Message?"
date: 2024-05-16T09:47:41-04:00
draft: true
toc: false
cover:
tags:
  - untagged
  #- featured
# description: "enter your description here"
---

Ever since reading
[Principles](https://felixleger.com/reads/read-62-principles/), I've had
this idea in the back of my mind of keeping a list of principles of my
own that I use to guide my decisions.

One thing I'd like to be able to put down in words is what exactly I
stand up for. Even though I put tremendous efforts in shaping myself
into the living example of the mentor I wish I had growing up,
sometimes it feels like I'm losing myself and have trouble articulating
where this all leads to. If everyone followed the example I'm setting,
how would that change the world? How would this guide our decisions?

I don't claim to have the ability to significantly change the world,
despite how much I wish I had that ability. I do know, however, that our
personality at a given time is colored by the five people we spend most
of our time with. Since my ambitionis to spend the majority of my time
with people, I often wonder what is my impact on the world. Alas, like
the rock thrown into a lake, it is very hard to appreciate one's own
ripples objectively.

Here are some of my guiding principles:

# I don't know what I don't know.

There is infinite knowledge and wisdom out there and I am only beginning
to appreciate that fact. When I was younger, I felt like I knew
everything, and whatever I didn't know, I knew where to look for to get
the information (the internet!).

Nowadays, it often happens that I feel like I don't really know
anything, despite reading 80 books in the last 4 years to try to make
myself knowledgeable. Socrates couldn't have put it better when he said
"All I know is that I know nothing". The more I learn, the more I
realize how little I know. Additionally, some of the things I learned
over the years were false, and so I have to continually question the
things that I know.

The only thing I know, is that I don't know what I don't know. I use
this knowledge to keep myself humble, grounded, open to new ideas. It is
often a freezing thought to believe I don't know anything about
anything, and so that is a slippery slope. However, admitting that I
don't know what I don't know opens the door for an answer to come from
unsuspected places.

# I am not the first, and I am not the last.

We are not that special. What we do is not that special.

There are times when I struggle to get started because I put a lot of
pressure on myself. I want to be perfect. I don't want to fail or make a
mistake. I don't want to be a fool. The thing is, it is very rare for
something to be done for the first time, either good and bad.

Afraid of going to the gym for the first time? You don't have to, as you
probably have been to a gym before, you simply forgot it. Afraid of
looking like a fool in front of a class? You don't have to worry: you
are not the first, nor the last to be put in this position. Don't be so
hard on yourself. Not everything is of your doing. You are an actor in
the human comedy, which has lasted for thousands of years. Relax.

People have been in your shoes before, and they will be in your shoes in
the future. You are surrounded by sympathetic ghosts, some of which are
earlier versions of yourself.

You are a link in a chain. If you break that chain, you are still part
of a chain of chain breakers.

# I am the sum of your habits. A habit is what I do when no one is looking.

I used to have terrible habits, and arguably still do. Play video games
all day, watch pornography and eat junk until my stomach hurt -- those
were the days. Unfortunately, I also felt terrible. I didn't realize
that my bad habits were responsible for how I felt, and so I feel like I
wasted a good chunk of my life complaining inwardly instead of getting
on my feet and look for the answer.

I believe I have found that answer. It is hard to apply, but easy to
understand. Take an honest look at the actions you pose when no one is
looking, when no one could trace what you did. Are you proud of these
things? These decisions are purely yours, and are a good reflection of
what is hiding in your soul.

I am thoroughly ashamed of how I used to be. I have immense regrets that
I have to battle with every day. Despite that, the choice is still mine
to decide how to tackle these.

Often, when I do the right thing in solitude (e.g. eat well, work out,
study, etc.), it feels like it's not doing a difference. No one is
congratulating me. Voluntary suffering in solitude feels hollow, except
it isn't. It is the most deceptive thing.

One of my favorite quotes from [read #79](/79) is "Drinking and using
excessively is one thing, but hiding oneself to do so is dangerous." If
you can find reasons to do the right thing when no one is looking, you
will change who you are for the better.

# Showing my work will help me improve.

I consider this website to be some of my greatest work. I pour my heart
and soul into it. I take great pride in publishing a new article,
because it feels like a new brick in my mental cathedral.

I have to show this work to others, however. I can't keep it to myself.
As hard as it is to admit, I really love getting compliments about what
I do here. However, that is not a good enough reason to show my work. If
I am to improve at all, I could see my work as mediocre compared to what
I'll be capable of as the years go by if I keep improving. Maybe I'm
phrasing this badly and I could go back to this to rephrase it...

What I mean is that welcoming criticism is a power move. I want to show
my work to learn how to embrace critics. They are the ones who have the
potential to make you grow.

Think of it like this: a pat on the head pushes you down. A kick in the
butt pushes you up.

# The only way to force myself to read something is by writing it down.

I have a very hard time staying focused on something, especially
something I care little about. When I first discovered my [learning
system](/overcoming-learning-anxiety), I discovered a truth so simple
yet so deep, which is that the only way I can prove myself that I truly
read something, that the words did make their way into my head, is to
convert these words into movement (writing).

When I write a memorable phrase, I know that I read it at least once.
When I read my writing, it feels safer, because I know that I already
made sense of it. When I read something I wrote, I trust that I can
understand it. It makes it easier for me to understand. It makes it
faster for me to learn and remember things.

# A confronted fear has the potential to lead to trust.

I am a fearful individual. I owe this to my mother, who chose to lead a
safe, cushy life. I don't blame her: the world is such a scary place.
However, fear leads to inaction.

The good news is that fear acts like a compass. It points you to paths
you haven't travelled yet. Some of these paths aren't safe and are scary
for a reason. However, if you can choose to take calculate risks, these
scary paths can turn out to be the safest routes for you. You can't know
for sure until you take the plunge.

# Great outcomes begin with a trusting relationship between two people.

I don't know of a single human who became someone great in their
lifetime without the help of someone else. We all need each other to
spread our wings. Don't be too proud to help someone else, and don't be
too proud to ask for help.

The bond between humans is an elastic one, and when knit tightly enough,
it can propel you to new heights like a trampoline.

# Gotta love that shit.

Nothing good comes for free in this life. You're much better off falling
in love with the process than falling in love with the reward, since
you'll be doing more of the process than the reward. You truly gotta
*love* that *shit*.

That's what I say to myself when I have to eat bland healthy food, or
work out for the hundredth time. I choose to do this because I love it.

# The only sustainable competitive advantage is the ability to learn faster than the competition.

What is learning? How do we learn?

Learning is the most powerful thing a human can to. It turns them into a
more powerful, capable being. If I could do only one thing for the rest
of my life, it would be to teach everything I know to others, out of
love for the human race.

# There is no knowledge that is not power.

This is a phrase I learned while playing Mortal Kombat 3 at the young
age of 3 years old. That introduction screen is one of my earliest
memories. Although I didn't know it at the time, and although it
possibly referred to a cheat code or secret move, I believe it is true.

# Safety is an addicting feeling.

# Don't be a stranger.
