+++
title = "Why I shifted from physics to focus on software"
date = "2019-10-10"
author = "Félix Léger"
cover = ""
tags = ["career paths", "physics", "unix", "imposter syndrome"]
keywords = [""]
description = "Believe it or not, writing software was not my initial career path. But in hindsight, I was headed in that direction without knowing it."
showFullContent = false
draft = true
+++

Changing careers.

I'm willing to bet that every day, at least one person reorients their
career. It's just a certainty of life: some people are going to choose
the wrong field. Yet, when it happens to us, it almost feels like we
ended up with the wrong career by mistake, or that we wasted time not
working on things we really enjoy. Or both.

I hope you don't mind me telling you my life story for a minute. For
the past 2 years, I have been developing software for CONTXTFUL
Technologies inc., a startup based in Montreal. However, my resume
says I am a physicist. I even have a master's degree to prove it. How
did this shift happen?

In my experience, there are a few key moments in your life where your
eyes light up and realize: "Wow. I also want to do that. I can see
myself doing that for a **long** time!".

The tender years
================
Back then, all that mattered was friends and video games. My father
was a system administrator at a bank, my mother was a dental
hygienist. I played The Legend of Zelda: Oracle of Ages on my Game Boy
Color on road trips.  I don't remember much from that period, but I
remember I didn't want my dad's job: he was not exercising, his back
hurt, he was getting calls in the middle of the night. It seemed like
the worst kind of job possible.

Getting a diary
===============
On my 8th birthday, I received the usual gifts: a backpack,
educational PC games, etc. However, my grandparents sneaked in a blank
diary. The cover was made of metal, with a big red heart on the front.
It had an heart-shaped padlock. It came with a green mechanical pencil
equipped with green lead. The gift caught me by surprise. I wasn't
immediately sure what I was meant to do with it and, let's be honest,
I wasn't sure I wanted anyone to see me holding this thing. "Write
anything you want in it. You can draw, you can write how you feel, you
can write about your day. Every page filled in this book will be a
gift to your future self.", my grandmother told me in French. So I
did!

That day, I wrote about the birthday I had in 2001, time stamped and
all. And thanks to this gift, I can now remember everything.

More than any educational game, that empty book taught me how to write
and how to learn from my mistakes. I learned the value of written
words, safely guarded in their pages. I knew that whatever I was
looking for, that book was the place to look. I knew that whatever I
would write today, as insignificant as it seemed, would be cherished
by future me for enabling myself to *remember*. It honestly reminds me
about the principles of documenting software: this diary was my SSOT,
my single source of truth.

But I digress!

All the insecurities I had over the years, the thoughts and
reflections, they mostly seem really dumb now, but at the time they
sometimes felt like huge milestones. High school. My first girlfriend.
University. Changing careers. Writing is still my best tool put things
in perspective, both in space and time.

Physics in high school
======================
So I enjoyed writing. Big woop. I still had to attend classes every
day, where daydreaming was not allowed.  Luckily, I really my classes.
I was fortunate enough to attend a private high school on the South
Shore of Montreal.  I enjoyed French classes, because I enjoyed
writing, as well as Science and Technology classes.  However, my first
class of Physics in grade 11 completely rocked my world. I was more
than enjoying this class, I was invested. I craved learning. The then
new concepts of vectors and forces in particular changed my view of
the world. I was consumed by the love of Classical Mechanics, thanks
to our teacher who did an incredible job at easing us into this new
world.

$$
a = \frac{\Delta v}{\Delta t} = \frac{\frac{\Delta x}{\Delta t}}{\Delta t}
$$

$$
\Delta x = \frac{a(\Delta t)^2}{2} + v\Delta t
$$

$$
v_f^2 - v_i^2 = 2a\Delta x
$$

My need to apply the new formulas I had learned in class was such that
I was inventing problems for fun and showing them off to our teacher.
To everyone around I was surely being annoying, but I could not help
it. I felt as though, for the first time, I had connected with what I
would enjoy doing for the rest of my life.  This class, which became a
hobby, could lead into a real career! I was excited. I now wanted to
**teach physics**.

When the time came to choose our study program for Cegep, I chose
Health Science, because... I  didn't know Pure Science existed (do
your research, kids!). Two biology and an organic chemistry courses
later, I quickly realigned and selected a bidisciplinary
Mathematics-Physics program for college. I figured, since I had had my
fill of labs with the biology and chemistry courses, the right choice
for me was to opt for a program grounded in fundamental theories. I
don't know how I was so careless during this period. Again, do your
research, kids!

The fun was about to begin.

Computational physics course
============================
As I was studying physics for my bachelor's degree, I was teaching
Cegep level physics to adults at college. I was having a blast.
Getting paid to do something you enjoy is like getting paid double
time. But then, the cracks started to show.

You know that feeling? At first, everything is perfect, but then you
notice the imperfections.

Tutoring is not as easy as it seems. If you give it your all in each
lecture, like I was doing, you are going to run out of steam quickly.
I was not prepared for this realization: doing what you enjoy does not
make you invincible.

Couple this with the fact that I was hearing left and right how hard
it was to land a job as a teacher in a Cegep, my spark for teaching
became attacked. What if I didn't want to teach physics to young
adults for all my life? What if all of this is just one big mistake?
How did I get here?

Changing careers. Or, in this case, changing fields. Here I was, faced
with a choice. But what were my other options? I was soon about to
find out.

In 2013, I attended my first laboratory course at college

(wip)
Computers will solve all the problems in the world, I want to work
with computers. The cool tricks I used to do with my calculator, now I
can do with much more power. I swore I would never follow my dad's
footsteps, but I ended up doing just that.  I quickly realized that a
bachelor's degree in physics is not enough to land a decent job, so I
pushed for a master's, despite already knowing this was not my
calling. It felt like the right path. Was it a mistake?  Should I have
studied software engineering? Maybe, I will never know. Probably, I
say. But hindsight is 20/20: you cannot feel bad for doing what felt
like the courageous choice at the time. When you have the choice,
better feel courageous in defeat than foolish: that would be like
losing the same fight twice.

Landing a job at CONTXTFUL
==========================
Was not even called CONTXTFUL at the time: Proximity HCI, Spillad,
CONTXTFUL I was excited to work on projects involving computers and no
quantum mechanics. The specific of the project mattered very little. I
wanted to join the team because I trusted the one in charge (who is
now my boss) I messaged him every month, to stay in the loop, but also
because my thesis due date was approaching and I had no idea what
company would accept me with my background. I had an interview at
Morgan Stanley, and completely flopped. CONTXTFUL felt like my best
shot at working in software without going back to square one.

Writing software feels like writing a novel (?), this desire to write
things never left me

Writing this blog
=================
I'm still not entirely sure what to do with my life, but I have
learned to embrace this feeling. It is what gives me the curiosity to
move forward and discover things that go beyond my own imagination. I
now know when something feels **right** for me, like writing this blog
for example. There are certain activities that feel effortless, so
effortless in fact that at times the true struggle is to wait until
after work to do them! At that point, work stops becoming work and
becomes a game. I'm all about games!



I have lots of friends in physics who are afraid they don't fit in the
current state of the industry. To them, I say: don't be afraid. You
are not a failure if you are not one of the 10% PhDs who land a
position in academia, etc.

I was always aimed at doing physics or teaching When I ended up doing
it, the only thing I knew is that academic research was not for me.
Now I know I found my niche, and yet, I still feel like an impostor.
The feeling never stops?
